I'm going to show you how to make an
i-cord for this you're going to need
double pointed needles so I've got four
stitches cast on to this double pointed
needle for the first row I'm going to
knit them like normal one two three four
now if I were going to knit this in rows
I would then turn it around and do
something on the back however do not
turn it around what you're gonna do is
you're going to slide it with the same
face facing you to the other end of the
same needle and insert this needle and
knit the four again but this time your
yarn is going to be coming from the
fourth stitch instead of the first
stitch where it should have been coming
from had you worked at the back so again
knit one two three four do not turn do
not do anything just slide it down
switch the blank needle to your right
hand and knit the four again so when you
pull the yarn from that fourth stitch
around to knit the first what you're
doing is sort of making a little tube
that's why it's called a cord and here
it is again there's the yarn coming from
that fourth side you're going to pull it
tight here when you knit the first
stitch which then sort of pulls the back
together and makes it round and the I
and I cord is short for idiot which is
no longer really proved terminology but
the idea behind the idiot cord was that
this was so simple that anyone could
learn it so if it's confusing you don't
worry just practice you will get it
finish the row slide it down I'm showing
you on bulky yarn but you could use any
size yarn and really any number of
stitches up to a point
smaller numbers of stitches are what we
usually see so that's an i-cord there's
the back
there's the front it's nice and round
but an i-cord by itself is only so
useful there's a way to do an attached
i-cord I'm going to show you here on
this piece of garter stitch so that
garter stitch in the middle with
attached eye cords on the side which is
a little more complicated so here I am
working across one side of my garter
stitch and I've got a three stitch I
cord on both sides so because I want the
yarn to be coming from here when I knit
that stitch on the other side I'm going
to pass the yarn to the front and slip
these three stitches over then when I
turn it around I'm ready to knit this
first stitch with the yarn that's coming
from over here
so I'm going to knit nice and tightly to
three and that sort of pulls these three
stitches around to make an attached
i-cord let's just shoot over to the
other side and see if we can do it over
there you can do attached eye cords on
the bottom brim of hats on the cuffs and
necklines of sweaters you can do them
hanging down from ear flaps as little
tassel holders so here we are now this
time what we're gonna do is we're going
to leave the yarn in the back you're
going to slip these three stitches over
and we're going to purl these stitches
so that we can maintain the stockinette
stitch of our I chord and the yarn is
coming from here which is good that
means it's going to pull this closed so
this time we're going to purl three with
the yarn coming from all the way over
here but working the first stitch
and then I'm going to move the yarn and
continue to knit my garter stitch which
is going to pull this stockinette tube
shut and then we'll be working this one
as illustrated before so that is how to
do an attached i-cord